To conclude this routing module, I now want to go into an advanced topic which can really improve your
bigger applications.
Consider our application here,
it's very simple but there's one thing we can notice, right now
if we never click on user, all the code behind this link so all the components we created for that and
so on will never be loaded,
we won't use them at all.
So it might be unnecessary to load them at the beginning of the application,
now it does of course not matter for our tiny application here
but for a bigger application with lots of code and lots of different features,
this might really make a difference. If you're using a set up like we do with webpack where we bundle
everything together into one file, then this has the disadvantage that whilst limiting the number of http
requests you send, you might limit it too much because your bundle therefore is really big.
So you want to find the right balance in having a big all in one bundle and loading stuff
you only need at certain points of time, only at these points of time. With webpack, we can actually do this
and you may simply google for lazy loading plus your preferred build system
if you want to find out how to set it up there
but webpack is pretty common, pretty popular so I will show it with this.
So I always said it,
it's called lazy loading
what I'm talking about, lazy loading means we only need or we only load parts of the application when
we need it.
So back to our routing file, how can we prepare this for lazy loading?
Right now, everything is loaded eagerly which means all the time because we added import statements at
the top and everything which you import at the top will always be included in the bundle no matter if
you use it or not,
so we have to transfer these import statements here into another syntax.
So I will get rid of them,
I will always import home and header but now I want to lazily load the other four imports, the syntax now
might look a bit strange but it's something you really just have to keep in mind, it's a syntax
webpack will recognize, we'll therefore not include it into the initial bundle but instead, we'll create
several other bundles. The syntax I'm talking about looks like this,
we create a constant, user to also fit the name we use down there so that we don't have to adjust our
code down there and then user simply is a ES6 function of where you pass resolve as a callback in there,
as a function in there
and in this function, we then want to call require ensure and now this is really just some code
webpack will be able to execute and to recognize.
So require ensure and this now takes an array
and in this array, we set up the path to the component we want to load,
so ./components/user and then user.vue,
so like before in import statement,
now nested in there. This is the first argument, this array, the second argument is another function where in
the body of this function, we use the result function we passed in as an argument to call
require components user user.vue again. Now this might look strange, what's happening here?
It's some syntax webpack recognizers and it basically tells webpack whenever we want to load something
which lives in this place, components user user.vue
and we do want to load it for example once we visit the route using our user component here.
So whenever we do this, execute this function here which is basically like a promise which means it resolves
the path
you should then really use.
Now if we would have just require like this at the top, then webpack would see this in the same way
it sees this import syntax, it's just a different syntax and would immediately load the file
but by having it in this asynchronous function here which has to resolve before it gets executed, webpack
is only doing this if we actually need that file and it will create appropriate bundles to be loaded
at this point of time during the build process so that everything will work smoothly without us editing
anything here.
So with that, I can now copy this and yes, this arguably gets longer but it's worth it to save performance
in bigger applications, for user start for example, then for user edit and also for user detail, like
this.
And now if we save this and we reload the application, we see it still works,
this looks good
but how can we tell if something changed?
Well let's open the developer tools and go to the network tab here,
if we go there and reload the application, you see a couple of files are loaded,
most importantly our build file which is really big because it includes all the warnings, all the source
maps, everything and it's not minified at all
so don't be worried about that.
Now let me clear this network tap and if I now click on user, you see there were two new panels
downloaded,
very small each,
if I click on the individual user a new bundle was downloaded and if I click on edit user, yet another
bundle was downloaded.
I think you're seeing the theme here,
these are the extra bundles webpack created because all these routes here, we set up here are now
loaded lazily and this is how we can utilize this feature to make sure that in bigger applications,
we only load parts of the application when we need it.
As a side note, if you want to group certain pieces together into one sub-bundle, like that we don't want
to have four user bundles, we want to store them in one extra bundle,
you can group them by passing an additional argument here to our require ensure functions.
So besides the array and this callback here, we then also have a third argument which is the group name,
for example user.
Now if we pass that to all our user related routes we set up here or the component imports, if we do
this and then let's go back to our home page first, clear the console, click user, reload for build,
but now you see we're not fetching any other files,
it stays at this one file which
of course now also is bigger because this file now includes all our user related files or pieces but
that might be, might make sense, maybe you don't want to have a separate bundle for every component but
you just want to group them together. And with that, you can do that using lazy loading
and really therefore optimizing your application.